cherrypick
stash
fork
revert
rebase
diff vs log vs status

git diff :
git diff command will display any changes made since you last committed.
git diff is between index (staging area) and working tree.


git status:
This command lets us gather information such as:

	If the branch we're on is up to date
	Any files that are staged, unstaged or untracked
	Any files that have been created, modified or deleted
	If there is anything to commit, pull or push


git log :
 git log will display the commit history for your branch.

git log -n <limit>
git log --oneline
git log <filename>


Git status vs Git log
While git status gave information about the current working directory, git log will display the commit history for your branch.

git reset filename - will unstage the file.
git restore filename - will restore the file in WD to previous commit's state

git reset --hard 
This will go back to previous commit. Anything in index and WD will be gone.Untracked files will  be there.

git reset --mixed
This will go back to previous commit. Anything in index will be gone to WD

git reset --soft
This will go back to previous commit. Anything in index and WD will be there as it is.

--soft: uncommit changes, changes are left staged (index).
--mixed (default): uncommit + unstage changes, changes are left in working tree.
--hard: uncommit + unstage + delete changes, nothing left.

If you broke the tree but didn't commit the code, you can use git reset.
if you just want to restore one file, you can use git checkout.
If you broke the tree and committed the code, you can use git revert HEAD.

how to undo a branch delete
git branch <branch-name> <latestcommitID>

how to stash
git stash 

list of stashes
git stash list

apply the most recent stash
git stash apply

apply the most recent stash and remove after apply
git stash pop

stash@{0} is the most recent stash

git stash drop stash@{1} will drop the stash without applying
-----


You have accidentally made a mistake and saved a file. But you have not staged or committed it. How wil you go back to the previously committed state of the file?
git checkout <filename>

You have accidentally made a mistake and saved a file and also staged it but did not commit it. How wil you go back to the previously committed state of the file?
git reset HEAD <filename>
git checkout <filename>
Note: The first command will unstage but the changes will still show in working area. Hence the second command needs to be run.


